WEB2 - DAY1: What is a web server? How to install WAMP? What is PHP? What is MySQL?
-----------
A web server is server software, or hardware dedicated to running this software, 
that can satisfy client requests on the World Wide Web.
A web server can, in general, contain one or more websites.
A web server processes incoming network requests over HTTP and several other related protocols.

HTTP is a generic and stateless protocol which can be used for other purposes as well using extensions
of its request methods, error codes, and headers. Basically, HTTP is a TCP/IP based communication protocol,
that is used to deliver data (HTML files, image files, query results, etc.) on the World Wide Web.

WAMP is an acronym that stands for Windows, Apache, MySQL, and PHP. 
It’s a software stack which means installing WAMP installs Apache, MySQL, and PHP on your operating system
(Windows in the case of WAMP). 

(ie) XAMPP is for X-OS, Apache, Mysql, PHP, Perl.
WAMP is for Windows
LAMP is for Linux
MAMP is for Mac OS X

How to install wamp on your PC? → https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MsMaiHqkKkQ

1- Go to http://www.wampserver.com/en/#download-wrapper
2- Click download (your version) - ABOUT 500MB
3- Click download directly 
4- Wait for the download to start and complete
5- Once downloaded, install it in c:\wamp
6- Click start server
7- Open your browser (Chrome or Firefox or Edge) and go to http://localhost
8- Check your Apache Version - PHP Version ...
9- Go to http://localhost/phpmyadmin
10- root and the password is empty

SHOW MULTIPLE WEBSITES WE'VE WORKED ON
mavitourvip.com
www.shoghol.org
www.lebmall.com
www.littlebrightminds.org
www.re-viewoptik.com
www.akscargo.com
www.wegrowminds.com
www.lr.international
www.newlink.me

LINK OF A WEBSITE DONE BY AN OLD STUDENT



What is PHP → PHP is a server side scripting language. that is used to develop Static websites or Dynamic websites or Web applications.

What is MySQL → MySQL is a relational database management system based on SQL – Structured Query Language.
The application is used for a wide range of purposes, including data warehousing, e-commerce, and logging applications.
The most common use for mySQL however, is for the purpose of a web database.

Relational databases are structured. You have tables and these tables may have dependencies on each other, 
or relationships. A database for a store will have a table for customers and one for orders. 
These two tables are related, because an order is made by a customer.

A relational database uses SQL which is short for Structured Query Language. This is a fairly rigid and standard way 
of storing data using tables, columns and rows. Columns represent the data point to be stored and a row represents 
a record with data points per column that has been defined. These are defined in a table which is usually 
atomic in nature; this means that a table should really only store data records on one entity or object at a time. 
Eg. A Table Customers should ONLY be storing customer records.

When additional details are required, or data needs to be associated with a record from one table to another, 
then we have what we call relationships. A common key is established between the two (or more) tables and 
this is used for that association there after.

